Paul is going to teach us that today
that our top priority should be prayer.
And I started thinking through this, um,
it's not because we have to, it's not
because that's what we're supposed to do,
but prayer as we'll learn today is one of
the most valuable resources in our lives.
And so as you get to know me a little
bit more, as I look at things from an
objective view and this idea behind.
How many in this room has
been told you should pray.
Let's start there.
How many in this room has been
told you should pray in life.
Right?
We get told all the time what we
should do, but if you're anything
like me, we either one don't like
people telling us what we should do.
Or number two, we get told to do something
that we don't really fully understand how.
And so today I really want to
walk through what is prayer?
How do we pray?
Why do we pray?
Who do we pray for?
I want to walk through the basics
because what I would love to do is for
all of us to start on the same page
and build a foundation so that at the
end of this, we can walk out of here.
One, knowing those things, knowing
what prayer is, how to pray, who
to pray for, what, what is our
posture supposed to be in prayer?
And why, why does that even matter?
By the time we walk out of here,
you'll sit there and go, you
know, Somebody telling me that
I should prioritize prayer.
And now I understand why, rather than
somebody telling me I need to prioritize
prior, but I have no clue why I don't
even know how good luck for somebody else.
And that's what I'm excited about today.
And I'll just tell you this in regards
to prayer, I believe prayer is powerful.
I've said this over and over
again, that I am the result of
someone else's answered prayer.
100% have heard people tell me before, Hey
Ben, I had prayed for you when you were.
And I look at my life now and I
go, I am the person I am today
because someone prayed for me
and believe that prayer mattered.
And so I started thinking through
this, what have you prayed for that?
Somebody would say, oh man, I
am an answer to your prayer.
Let me say this today.
So today we're going to be having
some baptisms, Lauren and Brian
are gonna be baptized today.
And, and, and one of the coolest things.
As I believe that Brian and Lauren are
an answer to mind Bernie sprayer, right?
We're one of, probably many that
have prayed for you guys, right.
And not the single yacht.
And you guys are probably getting
red faced right now, but that's just
an example of, of what I'm saying is
many times we really look at this,
like prayer makes a difference.
Prayer is powerful.
When you begin to think about
all that goes into how God works.
And so if you ever wonder, does my prayers
make it past the ceiling one or percent?
Absolutely.
And it's powerful.
So these last few weeks, I want to kind
of catch you up these last few weeks.
We walked through the
chapter one of first Timothy.
Um, and so a couple of things that Paul
taught us that he was trying to teach
Timothy, um, was, was three things.
One, he, he taught Timothy to teach the.
He taught Timothy that there
was power in his testimony.
And then he taught Timothy that
there was power in his calling.
And those are the three
things that we talked about.
And so in light of the instruction,
and this is the instruction
that Paul gave Timothy, the
instruction that Paul gave us.
He's, he's basically saying in light
of these things, I'm gonna kind of
break them out a little bit more in
light of challenging us and challenging
Timothy to address false teaching
by teaching the truth, to share our
testimony because T power testimonies
are powerful to remember your calling.
We don't want to ship wreck our faith
because of all of this instruction that
Paul gave Timothy, because of all of this
instruction that Paul's giving us, he says
this, I urge you to prioritize prayer.
Paul says that priorities in
prayer is the most important thing.
And I start thinking through this,
Paul could have said anything in
this text, we're getting ready to
read it because you're not there
yet, but we're going to return to it.
Paul could have prior to his anything.
And he says, no, first of all, pray.
So my hope is that by the end of today
that we'll see the value, the important.
I read this scripture.
Um, if by the time they get it up here,
if you don't have it again, it's first
Timothy chapter two verses one and two.
This is what it says in that text.
It says, first of all, and this
is Paul speaking to Timothy.
First of all, then I urge that
petitions, prayers, intercessions,
and Thanksgivings being made for.
For the Kings and all those who
are in authority so that we may
lead a tranquil and quiet life
in all godliness and dignity.
This is good.
And it pleases God, our savior who
wants everyone to be saved and come to
the knowledge of the truth for there
is one God and one mediator between God
and humanity, the man Christ Jesus who
gave himself as a ransom for all, as a
testimony at the proper time for this,
I was appointed a Herald and an apostle.
And I'm telling you the truth.
I am not lying.
And a teacher of the Gentiles.
And in truth.
So today we're only going
to cover two verses.
So this is going to be part one
of why we should, or why we should
desire to prioritize prayer.
As we begin to look at this text, we
see this pop off the chart and I'll,
I'll tell you what I used to do.
So when I was a new believer, I was
given a Bible and I read through it and
I wouldn't mark anything in the Bible.
I just thought it was wrong.
Like, you don't do that.
Right.
You don't do that.
So it took me about four
or five years to realize.
Hey, I can do that.
It's not bad.
So then I started marketing
my Bible, just things that may
stuck out to me made sense.
And I remember underlining this and
my Bible and it was this first of all,
and it stuck out to me, uh, how this
is so important for us to listen in.
And so I want to ask this question,
have you ever asked God to bless
your decisions, a decision you made?
So, Hey God, I made the decision.
Will you bless it?
Anybody ever done that before?
Okay.
Maybe I'm the only one that does that.
I'm the only one that moves
before I ever asked God.
So that, that could happen for, for most
of us is where we go and we do life.
And then at the end, we're like,
Hey, will you just make this work?
Right.
And here's the thing.
If we didn't pray before, it's
good that you prayed after.
But what I would say is what Paul's
challenging us is that first of all,
before we do anything, we should pray.
So before we make the decision,
before we do the action, before
we start our day, we should.
Y cause there's a, there's a word to
learn a little bit more about that.
It's because it brings about
God's wisdom and direction or
life rather than our own in this.
And so as, as Paul, sir, first
statement here, signifies this
again, before you do anything.
And again, he's, he's talking to
Timothy based upon the instruction
that he had given him, right?
To address the false teachers,
to appoint leaders, to share
his powerful press a testimony.
He says, you need to,
you need to pray for.
So I know you're probably a lot
like me in this idea of may my mind
from the moment I wake up is running
on all the things I need to do.
And it seems like I'll run all day
and I get to the end of my day and
I go, man, did I even ask God if
this is what I should be doing?
And so Paul's even
reminding me in this, right?
So we can catch ourselves
not prioritizing prayer.
And so we either pray one out of.
The, the idea that this is what
we should do, or we pray sometimes
if you're anything like us,
it's kind of funny in our house.
We typically pray for two meals a day,
not three, two, and it's usually lunch
if the kids remember, because I'm
not eating lunch with them or dinner.
So it's like some how
breakfast doesn't matter.
And for some of you, it's probably
because you don't eat it, but so we
either pray out of rituals as well.
Right.
And so we don't pray out of that, that
desire that, that we, we get from God.
And so I, I really wanted to make
this statement in the middle of the.
Is that we really desire as a
church to lead a church that
removes the burden of these two
words, the half to, and the should.
I've heard Amanda say this over.
We should ourselves to death.
That sounds really bad, but we do.
And that really, I should have
probably said this slower.
Whew.
Um, but the whole idea is we
put these burdens on ourselves.
We will.
And we do free to pray, right?
It's middle of the day.
And we begin to beat ourselves
up because we should have prayed.
We should have done this.
And I believe that that we need to remove
that burden because that's what Christ
came to do was move the burden and,
and change it from this for a second.
I get to, so if we missed it,
you stopped in rather than
looking for the perfect moment.
We just do it then.
And that's what I really want us to
be challenged in, in this, because
I think this, I think too many
Christians miss out on the joy of.
I think too many Christians miss out on
the joy of going to church and spending
time with Jesus, through his word and
serving others because they spend more
of their time with the burden that they
should do these things rather than the
desire and the opportunity to do them.
And I say all this to say, this is
when I think back through my life,
I've caught myself doing things
out of that's what I should do.
And it was not the right heart.
And so when we look at this prioritizing
prayer, please don't take it as a burden.
Take it as, as almost like something
valuable for us, because God has
chose us to have that relationship
with him and to choose prayer first.
So when we look at this,
I want us to see here.
Paul says that we should
first start with prayer.
And so just because I want, I
want you to see this statement
just because we know where to.
Doesn't mean we know how to start
and if the slides show up, hopefully
you'll see that, that statement
just because we know where to start
doesn't mean we know how to start.
So Paul makes that statement and he
says, first of all, pray so great.
There's a starting point.
That's what we should do.
And I think about this, I say, should
we keep, I'm going to use that word
probably too much today as well.
I find myself where I look at my life and
I go, okay, I think I need to be healthy.
And I want to work out.
Where should I start the gym?
But when I get there, y'all ever seen
somebody use the gym equipment wrong.
You're there going, whoa, buddy.
Like, no, you use your
arms, not your legs.
Right.
Well, what happens is we go to the
gym and usually we don't work out well
because we're, we don't know how the
equipment works and then work flustered.
And then we leave because
we're embarrassed.
We'll see, this is with prayer.
I see Paul saying, Hey, prioritize prayer,
but you may be just like me and you may
say, but I don't really fully understand.
So, let me give you just a
practical example of why I
can relate with you in this.
I'm a new believer in the church
to skate my life to Christ there.
They're doing great with their
promotion of like what's coming up.
And they said, this come
tonight, Lord supper and say,
great, honey, what do we bring?
What side of them did we bring?
I had no clue, no clue what
the Lord's ever was communion.
So I would've, I would've literally,
without her, I would have brought aside.
To a communion service and been
embarrassed too many times in the church.
We, we, we spend more time up here.
You should pray.
You should be in the word,
you should take communion.
And most of us fake it until we make it.
You get it right.
You might, I mean, like we're going
to act like we know what that means.
What are they doing?
We're going to watch them go
and then we're going to do it.
And then we're going to, okay.
I guess that's what.
Today.
And so reason why I'm saying
this, I had this heart because
that's where I came from.
I want us all to start
at the base level, right?
So we know where to start, but
we may not know how to start.
We know we should prioritize
prayer, but how do we start?
So we're going to walk through that today.
You guys excited about that.
You get to walk through
that to Gaye today.
So Paul says, first of all right,
pray, but he says, how do you pray?
And so we look at this and he says, I urge
petitions, prayers, and intercessions,
and Thanksgiving made forever.
And then if I'm a new believer,
I go, what are those words?
What does that even mean?
And so when we look at this, we, we,
we, we, we have to start at one place
before we even get to how do we pray?
Right.
Cause he's talking about how do we
pray, but let's look at what prayer is.
And so I want to ask that question based
upon what you do know, what is prayer?
What is prayer?
Just talking to you.
I was going to say, just so
you know, you can answer.
And, and, and its right.
And reason why is because this isn't
a place where you have to feel like
you have to have the right answers.
Like we're learning here together.
So what'd you say?
W w what was your Brittany
want to talk to God?
Okay.
What's another, what's another way.
What is prayer to you to
give him things right?
Anything else?
What, what would you, how would
you define prayer asking for stuff?
Gimme, gimme, gimme.
That's one of our favorites.
That's my favorite.
What's that confession.
Yeah, absolutely.
Absolutely.
So when we walk through this, we look
just saying, obviously basics of prayer
is a conversation with God, right?
It's a two way conversation.
That's the one part.
I remember somebody telling
me this with prayer.
Hey, do you know, you're
supposed to listen to God.
I'm like, you hear him audibly.
Can I get hooked up with that connection?
And what I learned through my
life, and this is where we'll
learn is God speaks to us through.
He speaks to us through his word.
He speaks to us through a worship service.
Well, what do you mean audibly?
No, it's, it's usually an inner peace
or it's an inner, uh, from, from the
word you'll read and you'll go, God's
like, this is what you need to do.
And so it makes sense.
I love this and, and, uh, again, I'm,
I'm trying to stay on task cause I
know we got a lot going on today, but,
um, Brian Jones joined us on a men's
discipleship group on a Monday night.
To come to this thing.
And he told me how he made,
made the decision to come.
And this is why I want you to guys to
know it works, Lord, what should I do?
I just give me something in front of me.
I'm going to kind of, I think I
remember this, give me something
like, let me know, give me a sign.
And he picks up the shirt
and it's live inspired.
It's our inspiring hope shirt.
He's like, well, I guess that's my sign.
I need to go to this men's group.
It works that way sometimes.
Right?
So it's just the laundry.
He should do the laundry more.
Maybe got to speak to you more.
I all I'm saying is.
It is, it is obviously
just that conversation, but
it's also listening to God.
It's also listening to God.
So prayer shows our dependence upon God
as well, and it shows our need for him.
So my challenge today is that
we don't need to over-complicate
prayer, but we need to make sure
we also don't undervalue it.
I'll say that again.
We don't need to over-complicate prayer,
but we also don't need to under value it.
We need that.
Uh, balance.
So again, how do we pray?
Paul gives us this answer.
So if you're saying, okay, I know we
should prioritize, pray, how do we pray?
We're going to break down these words.
He gives us this first word.
He says, I urge that
petitions be made, right?
What are petitions?
So petitions and in your Bible could say,
supplications are prayers that include
personal requests for personal needs.
An example in the Bible
would be the Lord's prayer.
You guys here in the Lord's prayer.
It says, give us today, our daily.
That's a petition or a supplication.
Right.
And so Paul is saying,
Hey, just ask for things.
That's a part of prayer.
So that's simple.
Okay.
That's one way to pray.
Then he uses this word and I love how
he says his petitions and prayers.
And I'm like, what's, what's in prayers.
So started just studying
it a little bit more.
And one of the most common terms
is prayers and it's praying
to God as an act of worship.
So when I mentioned
earlier, when we started.
Worship service is an act of prayer.
It's amazing how, when you're
singing those worship songs,
they're literally Thanksgiving and
praise and worship and all that.
That's prayer like that blew
my mind like that's prayer.
So that was, that was one way he
mentioned that we should pray.
Then the second one
was his inner sessions.
So requests on the behalf of someone else.
And I love the states.
Is this statement.
Making intercessions for
someone is standing in the gap
for someone orders or here's.
Another one is you're prioritizing someone
else's priorities over yours and prayer.
So then he says the last
one is Thanksgiving's right.
The expression of gratitude towards
God for the blessings in our life.
So I'd just love to practice
a couple of these today.
Now we'll get to these other things,
but why don't we by practice a
couple of these, I want somebody.
To just voice out loud.
What is a personal request?
A prayer that you need right now?
Yeah.
That's petitions and supplications.
What's a personal request.
You don't have to be embarrassed.
What's something we can be
praying for you about that.
You would pray for yourself.
Good health.
Okay.
Let's let's get one more,
but you got.
Okay, so this praying for, for, for
you and for your daughter and self.
Yeah, absolutely.
So think about this.
Anything we pray for ourselves, and
this is what I love about prayer.
We don't have to complicate
prayer by voicing that good
health prayer for my daughter.
That's prayer to listen.
I'm wanting us to look at this and
simple what our prayers worship.
We already did that before.
So I don't have to give that
example, intercessions, what's a
prayer request that you can pray
for somebody else that, you know,
Right right now, somebody,
you know, that needs prayer.
How can you intercede for them,
man?
Everybody's really participating today.
Okay.
Calmness and their spirit.
That's a great example.
Right?
So we know people that have
anxiety or fears, right?
So a calmness in their spirit.
So that's something where
we can intercede for them.
And if you put a name on
it, let's say it's Paul.
I don't know who Paul is, but I'm just
gonna throw, throw Paul out there.
You can intercede on Paul's behalf.
And here's the other thing
when you voice it, when you
think it that's prayer, right?
Cause you're sitting there thinking, okay,
man, I know that he's dealing with this.
I'm praying for peace and a calm.
That's prayer.
It that's how simple
Paul's getting at this.
Let's let's last w what's some things
we can be thinking God for today.
How can you think God thing
is this thankfulness sunshine.
Yes.
It's warm.
That's a great thing to thank God.
Right?
So in these things that we just talked
about, Paul's given us very basic things
we can ask personally, we can worship God.
We can intercede or we can pray for
someone else's needs and we can give
thanks to God for the things in our lives.
The blessings that we have, that's
simplistic when we think about, and
those words were big for me because
my vocabulary level is pretty low.
But when I look at them and studying
them, we just broke that down to two.
Now, are those the only ways we can pray?
Absolutely not.
What we talked about back here, um,
uh, is the prayer of repentance.
Right.
The prayer of surrender and there's
different ways you can pray.
And one of my favorite ways to pray,
me and Brittany have learned this back
at our old church is using acrostic.
Uh, so the word pray, you break it down.
P is to praise God.
Our is to repent a is to ask.
And why is to yield and actually
started studying through Nehemiah
chapter one this morning.
And Nehemiah's prayer
literally lays out to a T.
With praise, repentance
asking and yielding.
It's really cool how that works together.
And so when we think about prayer,
sometimes we think it has to
be all these things done right.
In order to make the prayer work.
And really prayer is a conversation
with God and it's broke down into these
different ways that we can do that.
So the thing that I started asking, so
this is not in the text when you sit
here and go, well, why is another text?
Well, Paul's talking to people that
probably understand how to pray.
So I want us to think through.
You ever wonder what our posture outward
posture should be when we pray anybody.
I mean, cause again, you tend to typically
look around what is everybody else doing?
Okay.
I guess I better close
my eyes about my head.
So let me let's, let's
just talk about this.
What do you think are some
correct postures that we
should have while we pray?
Doesn't matter.
Why doesn't it matter?
He's always listening now.
Is there value in nailing sometimes?
Y
it's a sign of surrender.
Is, is there value in closing your eyes?
Why
not distracted?
Right.
So many times we take these things
like nailing or, and you'll even
see in the Bible where they lay
literally POS straight on the ground.
And that's like full surrender.
Um, but the whole idea is, is
our posture is usually an outward
profession of an inward position.
So if, if I'm praising God thanking God,
it typically I'm like, Lord, thank you.
Like I can literally open my eyes
and look up and say, thank you.
That's prayer like inward man.
If I'm struggling over some burden
that I have, sometimes I need
to be on my knees and that's an
outward profession of an inward.
So our, our posture is usually just
modeled after our inward heart.
Now, if you're driving you can't kneel
while you drive or close your eyes,
that's usually we'll pray before a trip.
And a lot of times I'm
like, all right, go.
And, and pretty he's like open your eyes.
Um, but I, I bring that up because
at times we focus more on the outward
expression than the inward expression.
Paul's challenging us, first of all,
to pray in this way, these are way.
Wherever you are, however you are.
So I'll, I'll make it, this statement,
our, our posture should again be what it
reflects on the outside or inward should
what be reflected on the outside, but
there's no right way or wrong way and
less it's done out of arrogance and pride.
That's where I would say is when we're
praying as the we're boasting and that's
where the Pharisee that standing before
the temple, and he's praying to God.
Almost with the prideful heart.
And he's saying, Lord, I'm so glad.
I'm not like the guy that's kneeling and
surrender that won't even come close.
Now that's a wrong way to pray.
Okay.
But that makes sense.
So when we're looking at this,
there there's not a correct posture.
It's, it's really just the attitude of
the heart that may bring about that.
But, but here's the challenge.
Where can you pray?
Give me some examples where
you can pray in the car.
That's a great one.
You already took mine.
Whereas another place you can pray, huh?
Your bedroom.
Yes.
Wherever you are.
That's the simplest answer.
And so we begin to break down.
So anybody ever said this
statement, I'm too busy to pray.
I don't have time to pray.
I've used it.
And here's the reason why, because the
only way, and it maybe you're not like
me in this, the only way I think I can
pray is if I have a quiet place in a
closet, somewhere on my knees with my
head bowed and eyes closed because of.
Now here's the thing, those
places there's times for them.
Don't, don't hear what I'm not saying
those places there's times for them, but
God says that we should pray at all times.
At all times that means as we go.
And so my challenge a lot of
times, so anybody that's struggling
with prayer is as you go, you're
constantly everything you do.
First of all, when you wake up
or thank you for today, like
you could just be that simple.
You're in the shower and
you're your mind's running.
I got nine things to do, Lord,
help me know what to do and how
to do it with the right heart.
Or give me favor, you know, it's,
it's, it's throughout the day, you
pray because you can pray anywhere.
So Hosea six, six says
this, it says fry desire.
And this is speaking of God, he's a
prophet that's speaking for, for God, to
the people he says, fried is our faithful
love and not sacrifice the knowledge
of God rather than burnt offerings.
Here's what God's saying in our prayers.
This is it.
It speaks to this, this
outward and inward faith.
I would rather God sane an inward
heart that desires to pray with
the right heart, no matter where
you are than an outward profession.
So it would say this, I would rather
see you pray sincerely in your heart
while you're driving then to do the
ritual prayers three times a day, just
to dinner, just to say, well, we prayed.
He would rather, you pray with the
right heart, no matter where you
are, what your posture is then to
just do it out of ritual thinking.
That's what pleases God, or man,
I prayed in front of people.
I had people over for
dinner, so I better pray.
So that.
Religious or that it's
the right thing to do now.
Pray because you desire too in that.
So that's really the challenge.
I think that we get here.
So I think again, we try to
complicate what prayer is, how
we look and where we pray so much
that we end up not praying at all.
So that's my challenge is that we
don't complicate prayer, but Paul
reminds us also in Ephesians six 18
that we should pray at all times.
Right?
So it's time to stop complicating,
prayer and focus more on
consistent, open conversation
with God, no matter where we are.
Then the right words, the right
place or the right outward
appearance and what we do.
And I believe as we do that, we
will find ourselves in the right
heart and the right posture.
We'll find ourselves at times with
the right attitude and the right
words at the right time, rather
than finding the perfect time.
And I'll give you this a great
example, and then we'll move on.
We're going to get back to the text, my
wife, um, we have four kids, um, When we
were early with our kids, it was always
this difficult time, because what we
would say is, Brittany would say, honey,
I don't have time to get quiet time.
I don't have quiet time.
Every day.
I'm struggling to get quiet time.
Which, what that saying
is spend time with Jesus.
She finally said, I'm never
calling it quiet time again.
I'm calling it Jesus' time.
Which means it could be chaotic
kids, screaming, needing
breakfast, punching their brother.
You name it.
It can still be Jesus' time because the
whole time, no matter what she's doing,
she's spending time with the Lord.
And sometimes something that would
take 15 minutes in a quiet time
takes an hour because it's Jesus,
not you, but it's the heart.
And she's modeled that well for
me to understand that sometimes
we are looking for these perfect
moments to have time with God.
Early in our, especially
with our famous life.
Sometimes it's just chaotic
to have that perfect moment.
So get it where you can, and then you grow
to having those better times later on.
Right?
So now that we know that we are supposed
to start with prayer, and then we
know how to start with prayer, right?
With petitions, prayers, intercessions,
and Thanksgiving, and we're trying to
avoid some of the complication, right?
He begins to talk about
this, who we pray for.
Right.
Paul explains who we pray for.
And he says this at the end of
verse one, we're still in verse one.
It's crazy.
Um, and he says, he says
to pray for everyone.
He says, make these prayers for
everyone, for Kings and for all
those who are in authority so that
we may lead a tranquil and quiet
life in all godliness and dignity.
So Paul answers that question that
we can't avoid anyone to pray for it.
So why is he speaking to
Timothy directly about that?
You can pray for it that you
need to pray for everyone.
So we go back and I'll just
try to catch you up here.
Timothy is young, young.
He's also a little bit timid,
which means Paul had to
consistently say, Hey, don't leave.
Keep going, press forward.
Address these false teachers, teach
the truth, share your testimony.
It's powerful.
Stand up, be faithful.
So he's, he's constantly telling
Timothy these things because he
knows that Timothy's flesh is weak.
So you guys may be a lot like me is
you struggle in living your faith at a
times and we need this encourage men.
Number one, to pray for.
Because if we pray first, we know
that the power comes from God
and the direction comes from God.
But number two, that we
pray for our enemies.
See, Paul's getting ready
to address false teachers.
It's difficult if you're some of you
love controversy and you love a dress.
I don't know.
You're crazy.
If you do most of us, don't like having
to address someone with a fault in
their life or something that they need.
We don't like to do that.
So what is Paul challenging?
Timothy, pray first, not only for your
own heart, but for those you're going to
address and know you can't avoid your.
You have to pray for them too.
And the more that you pray for
your enemies, the more that your
heart becomes tender for them.
And also the more that God
gives you grace, in the
midst of those conversations.
So those in your church, those outside
of your church, people in your city and
those around the world, and those that are
difficult to love, we're called to pray.
And so also, Paul, doesn't just stop with
just everyone, but he gets a little more
descriptive and he says for Kings and
all who are in authority and you guys
may say, great, we don't have Kings.
And the United States will Kings
or presidents, and then we have
governors and then we have our bosses.
And if you're your own boss, then I
guess you just have to pray for yourself.
That's a great thing.
Um, but I would even say this and this.
I'm going to step this out here.
You know, part of my authority as
a pastor over your life, and that's
not in a subjective way or submissive
way, that's just a way of leadership.
You should pray for me.
I really appreciate that next being true.
True and honest.
Please pray for me.
I hope I'm not your enemy, but please
pray for me because I needed as well.
And so why do we pray what
we're going to we're in dressed
that, but he says to pray for.
Those in authority, not
those who treat you well.
And so it's difficult sometimes
praying for those who are in
authority, because we don't agree
with him, but there's a reason why.
Right.
So Paul doesn't exempt
anyone from the list.
So why should we pray for
everyone is the question.
And Paul answers that, right?
He says that we can have a tranquil and
quiet life in all godliness and dignity.
I looked at those four words
and I was like, okay, I don't
know what tranquil means.
I figured this out.
So tranquil means this.
It says, uh, to, to live a
calm and free of disturbance.
So basically that's the
circumstances around us.
So when we pray for those in authority
or those who have authority over us,
it can bring about calm and, and, uh,
free, uh, circumstances around us.
Then he talks about this word,
quiet, which is the word peaceful,
and that's an inward attitude.
Anyway.
Known this, when you begin to pray for
somebody, how it brings an inner peace
in your life, the more that you pray
for them, even though you may have a
negative view towards them, it seems
like God breaks down your heart and
you begin to view them differently.
So when we pray, it actually
helps our own hearts.
So that's the quiet life
that he's talking about.
Then he talks about that leads to all
godliness, which sounds logical, which
means to leads to us, to reflect God's
character in our life when we pray.
And then it leads to dignity,
which is worthy and honor.
And so, because when we pray, we find
favor again with our local officials,
hopefully those around the world that
are in leadership over us when we pray.
And we also know the last in that
where, I mean, really I'm going
to address the first three more
next week or the week after that.
Cause the next week of serve
Sunday, it says in verse
three, it says, this is good.
And it pleases God our savior.
So as.
Finish up today.
I want to pose a couple of questions.
We, we only talked about
basically two verses.
We hit that third verse.
There's a lot to do with prayer, but
I want, I want to leave you with this.
And it just, the challenge that Paul
reminds us and Timothy, before we do
anything to pray, James five 16 says
this prayer, the prayer of a righteous
person is very powerful in its effect.
It's powerful to pray.
So I'm going to pose some
questions to you guys.
If you could to do, if you could do
just one thing and it would provide a
calm, peaceful life that would reflect
the character of God and gain you honor
and respect, would you do it then?
Prey, if you could do one thing and know
that it please God, would you do it?
Do one thing.
Pray.
See, I look at the Bible
for face value sometimes.
And I go, number one, Paul
is somebody to be trusted.
We've talked about this recently.
Paul is somebody that we can learn from
that has modeled a to follow Christ after.
So what he says is valuable to me and he
says, first of all, prayed, that makes
me lean in and say, okay, I've got to
get this area of prayer right in my life.
So first of all, we learned what prayer.
We learned the posture of our
prayer, the words of our prayer,
we're learning how we should pray.
We were trying to find that we
can do it anywhere and we know
who to pray for, which is so good.
Right.
And its value for us.
But the thing that encourages me
is that it brings honor to God.
And that's the desire in my life ever
since I've given my life to Christ.
I really want to bring
honor to God with my life.
And I have not.
I'm just being honest as a pastor.
I've neglected prayer at.
Man.
And so I sit there and it's not that
I feel guilty and a burden again,
but really I look at and miss out
on the opportunity to experience.
We talked about peace in my life.
Well, if I miss something
opportunity to just bring honor
and glory to God through prayer.
So my challenge today, we,
we have something every
week we, we call invitation.
Um, and I explain this every week
to, I don't assume what we know it's
for invitations and opportunity.
To everything.
We just heard through communion
service through, um, the message to
say, God, what is it that I need to
apply to my life that I've missed out?
Um, and I'm challenged with a lot
of the statements I'm wanna kind of
remind us what we learned today to
maybe these would be the things that
you pray and ask God to help you in.
But I want to challenge
you with this statement.
Deuteronomy 29, 29 says this, the
hidden things belong to the Lord.
Our God.
But the revealed things belong to us
and our children forever so that we may
follow all the words of this instruction.
See, every time we come to
church, this is the fun part.
We all leave here accountable
to what we've heard.
And so we're accountable because now we
know that we should pray, but not that we
should, but really there's value in it.
So now that I've found value, we talked
about what were our priorities at
the beginning, things that we value.
My hope is that when you leave out
here today, you take prayer, wherever
it's been placed in your life.
If it's not been the number one
priority that you move it back up
to the top, because you see that
it's valuable for your life to bring
peace, to bring honor and glory to God
that it's valuable for your family.
And that it's, it's, it's really helpful
in your walk with Christ as well.
So what is our response?
Is that one that we, we, we
respond in some way, right?
If we, we just learned today, what
prayer is, maybe it's just saying Lord,
now that I know what prayer is that
I begin to attempt it wherever I am.
However am maybe you learned how to pray
today for the first time, what to pray
for specifically petitions and prayer
and Thanksgiving and intercessions.
Maybe you start saying I'm
going, gonna choose one.
I'm going to begin praying with praise.
I'm going to be praying with thankfully.
Maybe style we're pro posture.
You've been focusing more on that
than you have on the N-word posture.
And you're saying no, no more.
I'm gonna focus on the N-word.
Maybe it's where you can pray.
You're gonna stop saying I'm going to
try to find the perfect time and I'm
gonna start praying wherever I'm at.
For some of us, it's who we pray for.
It may be that one
person that you all know.
I bet you there's somebody that
walked in here today that says I
would never pray for this person.
I pray.
God breaks your heart for that
person, that she began to pray
for them and why we should do.
Maybe you leave out here today because
you want to honor God with your prayers.
I don't know what it is, but
you do so invitations and
opportunity to just reflect.
So a lot of times what we do is
we play a little bit music behind.
We're not going to sing, but it's
an opportunity for just pray.
And so you can pray with your
eyes up and we learn that, right?
You can pray with your head bowed.
You can stand, you can kneel,
you can lay on the ground.
We're not gonna make fun of you,
whatever God leads you to do pray
and just ask God what it is that
you need to take the next step in.
And I challenged you in this.
One small step will
produce big results, right?
Cause we take small steps in
the area of prayer that God will
show himself big in your life.
But here's the last challenge.
Prayer starts with the
relationship with God.
Uh, I just tell you this prayer is a
conversation and I never met Brittany.
How could I have a conversation with her?
If I did.
So I had to start the conversation.
I had to meet her.
And then I got to have that relationship
with her and pray, say, pray, but talk.
It starts with a relationship with Jesus.
God so loved you.
That's a love to you and we can
individualize this right now.
God.
So loved you that if you're the only
person in this world that didn't
know him, he would have died for you.
He would have sent a son Jesus to die
for you because he loves you that much.
Has never loved you more
than he ever has now.
And tomorrow it's the same thing
because he, he pursues you and he's
given you an opportunity today.
If you haven't given your life
to him, which means this to, to
recognize that you, apart from God
are separated from our relationship
with him, apart from God that you will
spend an eternity separated from him.
But if you accept who God is,
who Jesus is that he came to save
you from that eternity separated.
That you too can know God and
have that relationship with him.
Romans five says this at the moment of
justification, which is a big word at the
moment that you give your life to Christ.
You have complete access to God.
You don't need me as a pastor
to have a connection with God.
It happens through Jesus.
I'm just one who proclaims that message.
So today, if you haven't given your
life to Jesus, if that's your next
step, because if your next step is not
prayer, it's recognizing who Jesus is.
And when you recognize who.
Prayer is a part of the outflow of that
relationship, not a response to get it.
So my challenge for you
is to take the next step.
I always stand in the back
and there's probably been two
people to ever come talk to me.
And most of the time it's to
high five me or something, but I
stayed back there for this reason.
I want to talk to you.
If you have questions about who Jesus is.
If you have questions about prayer,
if you need to be prayed for, and
you just don't know how to pray,
and you want somebody to help you,
I'll be back there to pray with you.
Brittany is back here as well,
to be able to pray with you.
That's what we're doing.
To help, but here's a, here's
my last challenge for you.
If you leave out of here today and
you still feel confused about prayer
and you're like, how do I even start?
What do I even do?
I'm still struggling.
Romans 8 26 helps us.
He says in the same way, the spirit, which
has God inside of us also helps us in our
weakness when we don't know how to rebate.
Because when we don't know what to
pray as we should, the spirit himself
intercedes intercession, he helps.
He helps us with an
inexpressible groanings.
So here here's my challenge to you.
You may not know how to pray still
your children figuring this out.
If you just commit to attempt
the spirit of God inside of you
will help you learn how to pray.
And so will I?
And so all this church, cause
we're here to walk alongside you.
We're a family.
So I'm going to pray.
And then it just asks that you just spend
some time in the Lord asking him what
your next step is in the area of prayer.
So let's pray, Lord Jesus.
We love you.
And we thank you Lord.
For today.
We thank you for this
time in your word, Lord.
I pray
Lord that today, um, that everything
that was accomplished Lord was what you
wanted to accomplish, which means Lord,
I pray that every person that came in
here confused on the area of prayer
Lord, that they leave out unkempt.
Lord that there's someone that came
in this room, Lord, that doesn't know
you personally, Lord, that they know
exactly what they need to do, which
is to follow you personally, through
a personal relationship with you,
or to just pray that you move in the
hearts of each person in this room to
take a next step in the area of prayer.
To also have an open and honest
conversation with those around us Lord
at what they're struggling with Lord,
so that we can help them Lord, because
you desire to have a conversation with.
For us to know you and for you
to know us and, uh, for us to,
to just be encouraged by you.
So Lord, just move like you do, and we're
going to trust you or the days ahead.
And so we just pray this
in your heavenly name.
Amen.
Hi,
Um, this world is not my,
so I pay
for, I know you, uh, now see.
Speak
cause all these lies
I
Great to be able to pray and to sing.
We're going to sing one other song here,
um, just to kinda finish up the day,
spend a little more time celebrating.
Uh, so we have a lot to celebrate
all that God has done for us.
All that, uh, all that's
going on in this church.
Man, I'm excited that we get to
witness some baptisms this morning
and it's going to be just a fun time.
So, uh, if you guys would, if you want
to go ahead and stand with us, uh, and
we're going to sing this last song here
as we, uh, as we get ready for that,
ah, wind down to the creams.
Right.
I will shine in Gloria.
Plenty calls me.
mercy child for.
Amen.
All right before we move
on to baptisms two things.
Number one, I always give this as an
opportunity at the end of service,
um, is if you guys would like to
give you can financially, um, as we
continue to grow as a church, we want
to continue to impact our community.
And that's a couple of ways you can
do that back at our next steps table.
We have a box as well as online as
well, but those are always options
for ways for you guys to be a part of
what God is doing here financially.
So that's one things I wanted to mention.
The second is we're going
to take a five minute.
So those who are on live stream
five minute, break those in here,
don't walk out and leave because
we're going to do baptisms.
That's allowed Lauren
and Brian to go change.
Um, but those who have kids, you need
to go get your kids and bring them out.
Cause the kids are going to be
a part of this service as well.
So does that work or be good?
Five minutes.
Go
pray for them.
Um, As a couple Lord that their faith
grows stronger or that their relationship
with you and with each other Lord grows
stronger and Lord that they continued
to just lead their family to know you.
And so Lord, we thank you again for this
day and we pray this in your holy name.
Amen.
Yep.
Sit down.
So then what you're going to want
to do, you're going to scoot this
forward and we're gonna go back slow.
So if your head hits the back,
right, you won't have blood.
There won't be blood in here.
Okay.
So if you went to.
All right, Brian.
So before we baptize you, I
want to ask you one question.
Have you given your life to Jesus?
Yes.
That's awesome.
I'm so excited that you get to
publicly profess that here today,
and then we get to be a part of it.
So I'm so proud of you.
So let's get your hands in place here.
All right.
I don't know.
Remember if that's the right way
I told you the other day either.
So you can actually, that's fine.
All right, Brian.
Here we go, Brian, on your
profession of faith in Jesus as
Lord and savior of your life.
I baptize you now my brother named the
father and of the son and the holy spirit.
all right now, slow, slow out.
Okay.
Slow out.
So draft a little bit, and then if you're
going to help, let's lay that towel down
so that you can nail down next to her.
Okay.
Cause this floor is
slippery when it's wet.
No, no, no.
That's her towel.
You're fine.
There you go.
Your phone's not in your pocket.
Okay.
I didn't ask him that.
All right.
I'm gonna let you sit
here for just a second.
Um, I want, I wanna share with
you guys why this is important.
You saw Lauren held baptized Brian,
and Brian's helping baptize Lauren.
I think this is special
that families get to leave.
Each other, and they're a
part of this and it's special.
And so I'm so just happy for both of you.
And so Lauren, I have a
question for you, have you given
your life to Jesus, awesome.
Super pumped for you.
So today let's publicly profess that.
So, all right, Lauren, upon your
profession of faith in Christ, Jesus
as Lord and savior of your life, I
baptize you now my sister named the
father and of the son of the whole.
slow out
and this concludes our service today.
Thank you guys so much.